update: adding AS shared module functionality (#312)
JetBrains/kotlin-multiplatform-dev-docs: topics/multiplatform-integrate-in-existing-app.md

> 

Reviewer: Maybe show the resulting view as well? As this is the last preparation step, it's better to have a proper "before" screenshot

## Make your code cross-platform

> To make your code cross-platform:

Reviewer: Wow, I was terrified by this list -- let's clarify that it's a list of shortcuts, not external links

1. In Android Studio, select **File** | **New** | **New Module** from the main menu.
2. In the list of templates, select **Kotlin Multiplatform Shared Module**.
   Leave the library name `shared` and enter the package name `com.jetbrains.simplelogin.shared`.
3. Click **Finish**. The wizard creates a shared module, changes the build script accordingly, and starts a Gradle sync.
4. You should see this file structure in the `shared` directory:

   ![Final file structure inside the shared directory](shared-directory-structure.png){width="341"}

5. Make sure that the `kotlin.androidLibrary.minSdk` property in the `shared/build.gradle.kts` file matches the same
    property in the `app/build.gradle.kts` file.

Now that you have a shared module,
add some common code to be shared in the `commonMain/kotlin/com.jetbrains.simplelogin.shared` directory:

1. Create a new `Greeting` class with the following code:

    ```kotlin
    package com.jetbrains.simplelogin.shared

    class Greeting {
        private val platform = getPlatform()

        fun greet(): String {
            return "Hello, ${platform.name}!"
        }
    }
    ```

> 2. Replace the code in created files (except for the package directives) with the following:

Reviewer: I failed here twice. Let's stick to dumb copy-and-paste mode

Author: Added the package directives 👌

In your sample Android application, the business logic is stored in the package `com.jetbrains.simplelogin.androidapp.data`.
Your future iOS application will use the same logic, so you should make it cross-platform, as well.

![Business logic to share](business-logic-to-share.png){width=366}

### Create a shared module for cross-platform code

The cross-platform code used for both iOS and Android will be stored in a shared module.
Starting with the Meerkat version, Android Studio provides a wizard for creating such modules.

Create a shared module and connect it to both the existing Android application and your future iOS application:

1. In Android Studio, select **File** | **New** | **New Module** from the main menu.
2. In the list of templates, select **Kotlin Multiplatform Shared Module**.
   Leave the library name `shared` and enter the package name `com.jetbrains.simplelogin.shared`.
3. Click **Finish**. The wizard creates a shared module, changes the build script accordingly, and starts a Gradle sync.

> 4. You should see this file structure in the `shared` directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. After the setup is complete, you should see the following file structure under the `shared` directory:
```

   ![Final file structure inside the shared directory](shared-directory-structure.png){width="341"}

> 5. Make sure that the `kotlin.androidLibrary.minSdk` property in the `shared/build.gradle.kts` file matches the same

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Make sure that the `kotlin.androidLibrary.minSdk` property in the `shared/build.gradle.kts` file matches the value of the same
```

    property in the `app/build.gradle.kts` file.

> Now that you have a shared module,

Reviewer: Maybe add a new subheading for these steps?

![Renamed iOS project directory in Android Studio](ios-directory-renamed-in-as.png){width=194}

### Configure the iOS project to use a KMP framework

You can set up integration between the iOS app and the framework built by Kotlin Multiplatform directly.
Alternatives to this method are covered in the [iOS integration methods overview](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/multiplatform-ios-integration-overview.html),
but they are beyond the scope of this tutorial.

1. In Xcode, open the iOS project settings by double-clicking the project name in the **Project** navigator.

2. In the Targets section on the left, select **simpleLoginIOS**, then click the **Build Phases** tab.

3. Click the **+** icon and select **New Run Script Phase**.

   ![Add run script phase](xcode-run-script-phase-1.png){width=700}

> 4. Paste the following script in the text field:

Reviewer: The newly created phase is collapsed by default, maybe add the expand step

   ![Add the script](xcode-add-run-phase-2.png){width=700}

5. Move the **Run Script** phase up in the order, before the **Compile Sources** phase:

   ![Move the Run Script phase](xcode-run-script-phase-3.png){width=700}

6. Click the **Build Settings** tab, then find and disable the **User Script Sandboxing** option under **Build Options**:

   ![User Script Sandboxing](disable-sandboxing-in-xcode-project-settings.png){width=700}

   > If you have a custom build configuration different from the default `Debug` or `Release`, on the **Build Settings**
   > tab, add the `KOTLIN_FRAMEWORK_BUILD_TYPE` setting under **User-Defined** and set it to `Debug` or `Release`.
   >
   {style="note"}

7. Build the project in Xcode (**Product** | **Build** in the main menu).

>     If everything is set up correctly, the project will build successfully.

Reviewer: It was built successfully with the following warning:

> Run script build phase 'Run Script' will be run during every build because it does not specify any outputs. To address this issue, either add output dependencies to the script phase, or configure it to run in every build by unchecking "Based on dependency analysis" in the script phase.

When you made sure that Xcode is set up correctly, you can set up a run configuration for the iOS app in Android Studio:

1. Select **Run | Edit configurations** in the main menu.

2. To add a new configuration, click the plus sign and choose **iOS Application**.

3. Name the configuration "SimpleLoginIOS".

4. In the **Xcode project file** field, select the location of the `simpleLoginIOS.xcodeproj` file.

5. Choose a simulation environment in the **Execution target** list and click **OK**:

   ![Android Studio dialog with the iOS run configuration details filled in](android-studio-ios-run-configuration.png)

6. Check the newly created configuration – press the run button to build and launch the iOS app:

   ![The iOS run configuration in the list of run configurations](ios-run-configuration-simplelogin.png){width=280}

### Use the shared module in the iOS project

The `build.gradle.kts` file of the `shared` module defines the `binaries.framework.baseName`
property for each iOS target as `sharedKit`.
This is the name of the framework that Kotlin Multiplatform builds for the iOS app to consume.

Try adding a call to common code in Swift code:

> 1. Open the `ContentView.swift` file in Android Studio and import the framework

Reviewer: full path please

    > ```

### Set up an iOS run configuration in Android Studio

When you made sure that Xcode is set up correctly, you can set up a run configuration for the iOS app in Android Studio:

1. Select **Run | Edit configurations** in the main menu.

2. To add a new configuration, click the plus sign and choose **iOS Application**.

3. Name the configuration "SimpleLoginIOS".

4. In the **Xcode project file** field, select the location of the `simpleLoginIOS.xcodeproj` file.

5. Choose a simulation environment in the **Execution target** list and click **OK**:

   ![Android Studio dialog with the iOS run configuration details filled in](android-studio-ios-run-configuration.png)

6. Check the newly created configuration – press the run button to build and launch the iOS app:

   ![The iOS run configuration in the list of run configurations](ios-run-configuration-simplelogin.png){width=280}

### Use the shared module in the iOS project

The `build.gradle.kts` file of the `shared` module defines the `binaries.framework.baseName`
property for each iOS target as `sharedKit`.
This is the name of the framework that Kotlin Multiplatform builds for the iOS app to consume.

> Try adding a call to common code in Swift code:

Author: Let's remove "try" altogether, yes.

    }
    ```

> 6. Run the iOS run configuration again to see that the iOS app shows the login form.

Reviewer: Aaand here it stopped working

7. Enter "Jane" as the username and "password" as the password.
8. As you have [set up the integration earlier](#configure-the-ios-project-to-use-a-kmp-framework),
    the iOS app validates input using common code:

   ![Simple login application](xcode-iphone-login.png){width=300}

## Enjoy the results – update the logic only once

Now your application is cross-platform. You can update the business logic in the `shared` module and see results on both Android
and iOS.

1. Change the validation logic for a user's password: "password" shouldn't be a valid option.

>    To do that, update the `checkPassword()` function of the `LoginDataValidator` class:

Reviewer: full path please

   }
   ```

> 2. Run both the iOS and Android applications from Android Studio to see the changes:

Reviewer: The Android app still works :muscle:
